arche2025h1 configs (#211)
transparency-dev/static-ct: deployment/live/gcp/static-ct-staging/logs/arche2025h1/README.md

# Arche2025h1 staging log

## Overview

This config uses the [gcp/tesseract/conformance](/deployment/modules/gcp/tesseract/conformance) module to

> define a Tesseract log Cloud Run, backed by Trillian Tessera and preloaded with argon2025h1 entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
define a TesseraCT log Cloud Run, backed by Trillian Tessera and preloaded with argon2025h1 entries.
```

Reviewer: Some word is missing between "TesseraCT log" and "Cloud Run". Is it `on` or `using` or something else?

Run the following command from the root of the repository.

It fetches roots from argon2025h1, and filters out roots that don't parse with `crypto/x509` and `internal/lax509`.
As of 2025-03-21, these roots are:
- https://crt.sh/?id=298, with a negative serial number
- https://crt.sh/?id=9027356, affected by https://github.com/golang/go/issues/69463.

```
go run github.com/google/certificate-transparency-go/client/ctclient@master get-roots --log_uri=https://ct.googleapis.com/logs/us1/argon2025h1/ --text=false | \
awk \
  '/-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----/{c=1; pem=$0; show=1; next}
   c{pem=pem ORS $0}
   /-----END CERTIFICATE-----/{c=0; if(show) print pem}
   ($0=="MIIFxDCCBKygAwIBAgIBAzANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQUFADCCAUsxGDAWBgNVBC0DDwBT"||$0=="MIIFVjCCBD6gAwIBAgIQ7is969Qh3hSoYqwE893EATANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQUFADCB"){show=0}' \
   > deployment/live/gcp/static-ct-staging/logs/arche2025h1/roots.pem
```

### Automatic Deployment
This GCP SCTFE preloaded staging environment is designed to be deployed by the Cloud Build ([Terraform module](/deployment/modules/gcp/cloudbuild/preloaded/), [Terragrunt configuration](/deployment/live/gcp/static-ct-staging/cloudbuild/staging/)).

### Manual Deployment

> TODO(phboneff): come back to this, CloudRun doesn't trigger a deployment if the tag value change value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TODO(phboneff): come back to this, Cloud Run doesn't trigger a deployment if the tag value change value.
```

Reviewer: Do you mean the tag is re-tagged to another commit and force pushed?

Author: I couldn't parse my own sentence, sorry. If a Cloud Run service was started via terraform with a container tagged with "latest", a new (different!) container is tagged "latest", and the terraform config is applied again, the Cloud Run service won't restart. A fix is to use tags that are non stable across containers, such as their SHORT_HASH. It's not an issue for the ci stack, because we bring it down and up every time.

the project:

```sh
gcloud auth application-default login
```

Set the required environment variables:

```sh
export GOOGLE_PROJECT={VALUE}
export GOOGLE_REGION={VALUE} # e.g: us-central1
unset TESSERA_BASE_NAME
```

You need an Artifact Registry repository to store container images; adapt the configs and commands below to use your registry of choice. The rest of these instructions assume that the repository is hosted on GCP, and called `${GOOGLE_REGION}-docker.pkg.dev/${GOOGLE_PROJECT}/docker-staging`. For reference, here's a [terraform module](/deployment/modules/gcp/artifactregistry/) you can use to set up such a registry.

Build and push the Docker image to Artifact Registry repository:

```sh
gcloud auth configure-docker ${GOOGLE_REGION}-docker.pkg.dev
docker build -f ./cmd/gcp/Dockerfile -t sctfe-gcp:latest .
docker build -f ./cmd/gcp/staging/Dockerfile -t conformance-gcp:latest .
docker tag conformance-gcp:latest ${GOOGLE_REGION}-docker.pkg.dev/${GOOGLE_PROJECT}/docker-staging/conformance-gcp:latest
docker push ${GOOGLE_REGION}-docker.pkg.dev/${GOOGLE_PROJECT}/docker-staging/conformance-gcp
```

Terraforming the project can be done by:

>   1. `cd` to the relevant directory (deployment/live/gcp/static-ct-staging/logs/arche2025h1/) for the log to deploy/change.

Reviewer: Turn `deployment/live/gcp/static-ct-staging/logs/arche2025h1/` into a link.

Author: Modified static-ct as well
